We're half an hour from the open in Hong
Kong, Shenzhen, and Shanghai. You're
watching the China Show. I'm April Hong
in Singapore,
and I'm David Glass here in an extremely
rainy Hong Kong Tuesday morning. 29
minutes to the open. As you can see,
stocks, as you can see, as well. Half of
1% to the upside, extending this global
rally as traders boosting their bets for
a Fed rate cut in September. Markets now
see three cuts over the next four
meetings. Now, President Trump warns
India of substantially higher tariffs as
Delhi stands firm on oil purchases from
Russia despite Washington's protests.
And Tesla's China shipment slumping
again as it struggled to keep up with
likes to the likes of local rivals BYD
and Xiaomi.
[Music]
Welcome to the show and good morning.
lots to get through over the next two
hours or so. We'll start things off with
this market rally and we're coming off
the best day uh for global equities on
Monday. MCI country index had its best
day in about six or seven weeks on
Monday. We are continuing to see that.
S&P futures are also catching a bit
early this Tuesday morning, half of 1%
to the upside. Samsung is gaining quite
a bit uh in Korea and I would imagine
some of the tech plays as well in Taiwan
as you can see uh on your screens. In
terms of data, it's I would say medium
as far as the how heavy things are on
the data deck today. So, we were coming
off Korean inflation came out. You have
BOJ minutes, a series of PMI numbers in
the last 30 minutes. Hong Kong PMI
hitting the high since January. And we
should be getting uh the S&P global
gauge of services PMI for mainland China
in about 43 minutes from now. Also
coming out right now that should be
coming up on the bottom of your screens
is Philippine CPI and you know the
dollar peso in fact had its biggest one
day drop in about three years. We'll get
to that in a moment. There we go. Okay,
that is I believe for the first time in
don't blame the messenger. I'm just
racking my brain here. 0.9% I believe is
the first time we've had a sub 1% read
on Philippine inflation going back to I
think 2020. Um so as you can see much
lower than expectations. I'll get the
statistic correct
uh if I'll correct myself if that's if
if that's slightly uh off off target.
Very quickly, twos and tens. So, we
talked about this, right? So, September
is now fully priced as far as the Fed
cut goes. It's now about 76 basis
points. That's priced all the way
through to the January meeting, which is
effectively 325 cuts over the next four
meetings is what's currently priced.
That's a moving target. Of course, Nifty
futures and brand on the Russia, India,
US story undisturbed by the news flow so
far. Very quickly, FX markets, Euro,
it's pushing back against I think it's a
50-day moving average. It's very much in
focus there. That's number one. Number
two is dollar yen toward the downside
outperforming most of its peers. The
pesos on your screens as well. Um, as
you can see, still on the stronger side
of the cutoff. And overnight in China,
Trip.com reports today tented music bu
some stocks to watch. Given the big
moves we had overnight, Golden Dragon
index better by 1.4% and going into the
open today, we are likely to set or to
extend the rally. We're seeing futures
coming up on your screens. And I forgot
to mention this as well. Dollar Hong
Kong coming off the week end of the bad
following another intervention coming
out of the HKMA to defend the peg. Yeah,
April, lots to talk about today.
Yeah, and I think one of the key themes
we are tracking the impact from these
tariffs as these deal negotiations still
under the way and we have the likes of
Trump, right? He's threatening warning
to substantially raise the tariff rate
for India. Uh this is something that New
Delhi has come out to say is not
justified, not reasonable. But if he's
taking issue with India over its uh
imports of Russian oil, where does this
leave China? And as we continue
assessing the tariff impact, uh what is
that going to mean for the Fed rate cut
bits?
>> Yeah, where we're not really seeing I
think that a point that Mary Dailyaly
made in that interview I believe with
Reuters was it's probably we're getting
to a point where it's time to cuts. I
think we had two denters of course in
the last meeting and you know the fact
that you know the jobs market data and
revisions on Friday right is starting to
show a softening that's number one and
point number two is we're not really
seeing yet is that going to come uh you
know inflation through the pipeline
because of tariffs not really just yet
so um all things equal it looks like we
are headed towards interest rate cuts is
it an insurance cut that's certainly one
way that's some people have framed uh
the likely cut that we're probably going
to get in September very deal of course
underscoring of course that they can't
wait forever. Uh more than two cuts is
the headline according to that interview
there with Reuters. And yeah, here we
go. This is the pricing as of about an
hour an hour or so back. Nothing much
has changed. 76 basis points easing
priced uh April by the end of January,
early next year. So yeah, suffice to say
it looking it's looking like we are
entering finally that window for easing
to resume out of the Federal Reserve.
April.
>> Yeah, markets have gone ahead to price
in easing even though we still have
these uncertainties of the way tariffs
will play out. And of course, as we've
just been mentioning, the president says
he'll raise these tariffs on Indian
exports over the country's purchases of
Russian oil. Let's bring in our
Bloomberg News desk editor Jill Dis. So
Jill, talk us through the state of play
now between the US and India on these
tariffs.
>> Good morning, April. Yeah. So, you know,
obviously we saw the 25% tariff rate
slapped on India last week supposed to
go into effect later this week. Really
quite a reversal from just earlier this
year when um you know, India was one of
the first out of the gate to try to
negotiate something with the US. We saw
um you know, Modi and and and Trump meet
um you know, obviously a much different
situation now. And it really does kind
of seem to be in large part driven by
Trump's desire to really kind of drive
an end to Russia's war in Ukraine. I
mean, we know that Trump is incredibly
unhappy with Putin's um inability to or
unwillingness rather to come to the
table uh with him on this. And so, one
thing that Trump has been floating for
several weeks now is this idea of
secondary sanctions on uh those nations
that do buy Russian oil. Um one of
those, as you mentioned earlier, April,
being China, although at this point, uh
the United States China relationship
around trade does seem to be quite
delicate and they do seem to be trying
to progress toward a Trump she meeting
maybe later this year. this year. We
know that you know China is kind of on a
different track when it comes to um how
exactly its tariff relationship with the
United States is working. So that leaves
India uh which at this point you know
India has been a pretty substantial
buyer of Russian oil. Uh since 2022 when
that war broke out um you know India is
calling sort of this targeting right now
unfair. I think the question here though
is how much um you know they're able to
actually negotiate something. I mean, we
know that, you know, several weeks ago,
Trump was floating or, you know, his
administration rather was floating the
idea of secondary sanctions or tariffs
on nations that do buy Russian oil as
high as 100% or so. I mean, that's, you
know, quite significant. I'm not sure
how much of that really factors into how
exactly these tariffs may evolve, but it
does obviously leave India in a very,
very, very tricky situation as it tries
to negotiate lower tariff rates with the
US.
Well, speaking of a, you know, another
front where negotiations are still
likely going to take place are the, you
know, the Swiss and I think what they're
saying is they're likely or they're
prepared to make a better offer to the
Americans. What do we know about that,
Jill?
>> Yes, that's right, David. So, you know,
Switzerland, um, you know, they were
slapped with a rate of 39%. I mean,
incredibly high among industrialized
nations. Um I will point out I think you
know when you look at the te def deficit
there's a lot um in in terms of gold
exports I think are a pretty significant
contributor there as well as
pharmaceutical goods um watches
obviously at Switzerland. Um but yeah, I
think that, you know, Switzerland kind
of, you know, took a look at that rate
and said, you know, we can definitely do
better. And I think that what that
really shows about the way that a lot of
these tariff negotiations work is that
it does seem to be or at least a lot of
these countries feel that it's a bit
funible in terms of how you ultimately
work with Trump that, you know, just
because something is slapped on you,
that doesn't necessarily mean uh that
that is, you know, hard and fast rule
here. I mean, we do know that these
tariff rates um these new tariff rates
are supposed to go into effect, you
know, toward the end of this week. Um,
but it does seem like, you know, at
least from what we're seeing out of
India, what we're seeing out of
Switzerland is that there is a lot of
desire to sort of continue to bring
those rates down. And I do, I know I
make this point every time, David, but I
do think that it's also worth noting
that, you know, traditionally trade
relationships and um, you know, trade
agreements take years uh, to develop and
really kind of bring together. This
isn't something that you can typically
do within a few months. And so I can
imagine that, you know, you can you can
see a lot of these relationships
continuing to evolve over the course of,
you know, the next few months, if not
the entirety of this Trump
administration.
>> Jill, thank you. Yeah, that's a good
reminder. Jill D is there, our news desk
editor, and to the point Jill was
making, right? So it takes a while to
make a trade deal, to strike a trade
deal, and it doesn't mean once a trade
deal is struck, tariffs go away, right?
Um, that's really one view from our next
guest, Aiden Yao, senior investment
strategist for Asia at Mundi Investment
Institute here with us in our studio.
Brave the the weather for us. Thank you
for coming in. Of course, I know how it
is outside. Pleasure.
>> Um, let's start with that. The
incremental getting more trade deals
coming through.
>> Sure.
>> Are we out in the clear as far as
tariffs go? Like in terms of the
disruption to market specifically? So I
think the market has been very
optimistic and uh they have reasons to
chair because u um you know tariffs are
coming down. Trump made a big move on
April 2nd and has been scaling back the
rate of tariff uh ever since. We have
seen uh the pace of deal making
accelerating over the last couple of
weeks as well. So I think there are
reasons to be optimistic uh in so far as
the trade tensions are concerned but uh
I don't think structurally we are out of
the woods. Uh I think striking trade
deals doesn't really mean the end of
tariffs. Um our view is that the
commerce department is going to continue
to pursue actions in individual
industries by imposing sectoral tariffs
and Trump is going to use tariff as
allpurpose policy tool to extract
economic non-economic concessions which
is talk about that is punishing India
for buying Russia oil. I also don't
think that striking trade deals means
the end of the economic shock. uh we are
starting to see those economic shocks
manifesting in US economic data with
retail prices being pushed higher and uh
there's been slowing of domestic demand
because of direct indirect impact of
tariffs and uh um I'm afraid that this
stackflationary impulse because of this
negative supply talk is going to
continue to manifest and creating a
particular sort of a tricky position for
the Fed and finally um I think striking
uh trade deals doesn't really mean the
end of uh uh US macro imbalances. The
whole premise of imposing tariffs is to
rebalance the trade book. But the US
chronic trade deficit is not because of
US imposing less tariffs than other
countries. Is because the US is a
structurally under safe economy uh in
both the public and the private sector
and meddling around with tariffs is not
going to show those structural
fundamental imbalances. So so long as
these structural issues remain in place,
I'm afraid that you know tariffs is
going to come back to hongas on a
periodic basis going forward. So overall
I think we are in a very volatile
ceasefire but this is not a credible end
to the trade war.
>> How are equity markets then particularly
in the US set up for August?
>> So uh how is it setting up for August? I
mean um August the first is sort of gone
in the past and the market continue to
sort of move higher. Obviously it's
corrected last Friday because of
non-farm payrolls but so far I think the
market has been desensitized to tariff
uh news and uh you know right now the
attentions is gradually shifting to
macroeconomic data to gauge the state of
the US economy as well as where the Fed
is headed in terms of rate cuts. So I
think uh um you know unless we see big
sort of a news headlines about
terrorists for example US and China
either striking a deal or um negotiation
fall apart receptual terrorists make a
comeback. I think market will continue
to trade um sort of outside tariff rims
and focus on macroeconomic data in the
near future.
Aiden, I think one of the points you're
alluding to is this continued perhaps
USChina rivalry aside from tariffs. What
are some of the other ways that perhaps
it might manifest and how do you
position for that?
So I mean trade is really front center
you know it's not just a tariffs um you
know in the trade front on the US side
is a technology restriction there's a
ban on chips although that we have seen
a bit of a cooling of that tension uh on
the China side is a restriction on real
earth and we have seen over the last
couple of months that this restriction
has you know tangible power to bring the
US uh on the table and to substantial
ually and critically sort of deescalate
the bilateral trade tensions. Um beyond
that, you know, there's a lot of
geopolitics. You mentioned before our
conversation that there could be uh you
know, 100% secondary tariffs to punish
China in buying Russian oil. So it's a a
delicate and very complex relationship
and uh it could it could move in either
direction. You know, if later in the
year we get a meeting between Ci and
Trump, then you could make a case that,
you know, bilateral tensions may
actually subside and the relationship
could actually improve.
>> So, how best do you position for this? I
mean, we've been seeing that US tech
rebound in the past day for AI as a
play, for example. Is there a preference
perhaps for hyperscalers versus the
infrastructure sort of weighs into the
narrative?
>> I mean AIS is clearly still in the
driving seat. If you look at the rebound
uh since the liberation day, you know,
the MAX 7 is back in the leadership
position once again and it's creating
this very narrow rally that takes S&P
and the NASDAQ back to record highs and
we are right now in the midst of the
second quarter earnings season. Now if
you look at the overall headline number
you see that uh you know there's a
pretty significant beat right close to
80% of companies have a beat on earnings
and close to 75% is speed on sales but
if you dig a little bit deeper you will
see that the sales growth and earnings
growth has slowed and relating to our
conversation if you dig further uh deep
down you see that the vast majority of
that earnings actually contributed by
technology sector the overall So uh
right now the earnings of growth in the
second quarter is about 7.7%. But if you
take out the technology sector that
growth rate dropped to about 1.9%. So it
tells you that the vast majority of
earnings is contributed by the uh
technology sector and that's very much
the same as this very lopsided and
concentrated rally in the US. So what
what what then do you make of this
growing chorus of calls for a near-term
correction or even a medium-term
correction in US stocks? And
>> I mean juxtapose that with the other
point you just made that fine, it's
narrow,
>> but that's been enough really for the
most part of the last
>> how many years? So why why should I be
concerned about the the negative breadth
of this rally?
>> Sure. So for us, I think you really need
to separate the short-term views from
the medium to long-term views. In the
short term, it's hard to fight against
the market. Market momentum is very
strong. Buying on dips mentality is very
strong. Fridays is sort of a oneoff
looks like a one-off correction. The
markets rebound overnight. So in the
near term, don't stand in even the
weight of the market when momentum is
this strong. Over the medium term, I
would say that uh there are reasons to
be cautious about the US assets. If you
look at the equity side, it's a
discounting a very rosy outlook for the
US economy. Next 12 months, EPS grows,
it's at 12 13%, no economic slowdown,
let alone a recession. If you look at
bond market, the break even is saying
that the inflation the tariff impact is
one off is going to trend back towards
2% in the coming uh you know quarters.
So the equity markets are saying economy
is a no problem. The bond market is
saying inflation is a no problem. So
it's a discounting a very goldilock type
of a scenario. But if I'm looking out
the window, I see recall the policy
uncertainties. I see a clear slowing
global economy led by the US and China.
And I see very high geopolitical
uncertainties as well. So what I'm
seeing with my own eyes is very
different from what's been discounted by
the US market and that's why I think in
the medium-term there are reasons to be
cautious.
>> Yeah, both equity and fixed income to
your point consistent there. Right. Uh
we'll have more from Aiden Yao who'll be
joining us in a couple of minutes of
course but have lots of more to talk
about including what the alternatives
are per perhaps to this US uh equity
market. Now speaking of Tesla, it's a
big story. China and its market there
and sales. They're actually sliding back
uh into declines as buyers opt for
alternatives made by local uh
competitors. We'll have the details
coming up next. Cutting down to the
opening trade here, Shanghai, Shenzhen,
and here in Hong Kong, the opening bell
just under 12 minutes away. And yes,
that is the view outside where a black
rainstorm warning will remain in place
until 11:00 a.m. local time. That's
still within the next 2 hours or so.
Plenty more ahead. This is the China
Show.
[Music]
Welcome back. Going into the open today
under 10 minutes away. So A50 futures
are down. We should have your pre-market
pricing that should be coming up at your
screen shortly as well. Global markets,
all Asian equities are extending the
global rally. still with us on set for
some final thoughts on China
specifically as well. Aiden Yao, senior
investment strategist for Asia at Amundi
Investment Institute. What I've observed
in at least within the Chinese markets
narrative in the last few weeks or so is
the economy is doing well, but well
enough that you don't need emergency
stimulus, but not bad enough that you
need, you know, the other side. So in
other words, it it seems that this is
not really a good spot for equity
markets because you don't get
>> either catalyst. Just your view on what
what this means short term.
>> So um I don't think this is a very much
a policy or fundamental driven rally. If
you look at the overall China equity
complex clearly the H shares perform so
much better than Asia. Asia is very much
a domestic driven policy sensitive. Asia
share nowadays is more technology. If
you look at since the beginning of this
year after deep seek to middle of the
year about 60% by our uh count of the
Msei China rally was actually driven by
technology and that's a similar to the
MAX7's contribution to the US rally in
the last number of years. So to me this
is a very uh thematic uh uh AIdriven
rally and if you think that AI has a
very long runway have a very sort of a
wide playing field is a fert of ground
for opportunities and Chinese technology
companies are trading at a much more
reasonable valuations compared to Mac 7.
Uh this to me is a secular trend that
investors should pay attention to.
>> What about some of the structural shifts
we're seeing Aiden? I mean uh massive
investment in a dam some of these other
you know plays how how is that
>> how is your view on that
>> so I I don't think it's going to
significantly move the needle for the
short-term economy if you look at the
dam uh estimate it's about 1.2 two
trillion over the next 10 years that uh
equipped to about 0.1% per year uh for
GDP. Uh we have also seen the uh
childcare subsidies which could be worth
about 100 uh billion a year. That's
about 0.1% of uh economic growth. Um so
in the near term it's not going to move
the needle but these are the structural
moves in the right direction. And I
would say that these policies are you
know one stone killing two birds. It is
much needed to sort of get the economy
on a sustainable development and at the
same time it does contribute to
short-term economic growth even though a
single project doesn't move the needle
but if you add more and more of these
then you could amount to a substantial
size. So I think uh um you know the
these pro projects are duly needed um
over the the coming months if Beijing
want to put a floor under this economy.
And if you look at China's economic
growth so far this year the better than
expected showing in the first half was
really driven by two things resilient
export and policy frontloading. Both of
these engines are likely to spawner,
right? Uh export is going to run into
higher tariffs and slowing global demand
and I think the policy front loading is
going to run its course in the coming
months as well. So we desperately need
more sort of stimulus uh to support this
economy to get the economy across the
finishing line. So if we can get some of
uh these projects that can both
providing short-term growth imposed and
structural reform, I think that's good
for the economy.
>> Okay, Aiden Y will be rejoining us in a
couple of minutes here very quickly.
Amundi Investment Research Institute.
Plenty more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. You're watching the China
Show. Counting down to the open of
markets here. 40 seconds away. futures.
A50 futures are on the softer side. Hang
sang is slightly to the upside which is
I think when you juxtapose that against
uh the rest of the Asia-Pacific equity
complex underperforming today not
because of the weather but the weather
has been terribly depressing uh
recently. So stay tuned for public
service updates of course out of the
government. The short version is here in
Hong Kong at least. The black rainstorm
warning April will remain in place for
about at least another 90 minutes or so.
April.
>> Yeah. Brace for bad weather, right? In
terms of what we're seeing in markets,
uh perhaps also brace for the US China
trade developments. Still on the lookout
for potential extension of that truce.
And in the absence of that as well as
the Poland bureau stimulus front sort of
disappointing, what investors are really
focused on is earnings news. And we're
seeing somehow uh mainland stocks
managing gains at the open. It's worth
noting that we also saw mainland
investors selling uh Hong Kong stocks to
the tune of about $2 billion. This was I
think the most in 12 weeks just a day
ago. Uh but keeping that consumption
theme going, you looking at the likes of
CL uh or Quo Ma I should say a bit
firmer. Now, let's take a look at how
Hong Kong is fairing as well. As you
alluded to, likely to try what we're
seeing in the rest of Asia, keeping tabs
on some of these incremental
developments on tech. Alibaba releasing
an open-source AI model. This is more
for uh imagery. And along with that,
we're seeing most of these Chinese tech
names uh sitting negative. PU taking a
bit higher. We had that tie up with Lyft
as part of its global expansion plans.
And then on that EV theme, take a look
at some of these Tesla suppliers. So we
saw Tesla surging overnight and this was
after that $30 billion stock award which
cleared some of the overhang for Elon
Musk but also how Chinese shipments
that's continued to fall. So looking a
bit mixed among its suppliers at the
moment, David.
>> Yeah, I don't think there's anything
there really. Uh the big news to your
point though was that massive $30
billion award out of Tesla. But that
being said though underneath the hood,
what does it look like? Right. So you
have some of the shipments uh from Tesla
uh the Shanghai factory specifically
slipping back into decline in July.
That's amidst really this theme that
we've been talking about consistently
intense competition there in the
domestic market. Let's bring in Linda
Lou, our transport reporter, who has
more on this specific story for us.
Linda, yeah, what what have we observed
here as far as this specific data point
is concerned?
So Tesla's China shipments uh is an
important indicator for the company
given that China, you know, is the
world's largest EV market. It's also
Tesla's uh largest market outside of the
US. So now coming into July, we've seen
their u monthly shipments from the
Shanghai factory fall for six out of the
seven months that we have data for. So
that's really concerning um you know for
this companies that's trying to get back
on track saleswise.
>> Uh Linda, overall where do you think
Tesla can make a bit of headway uh in
terms of a recovery?
Tesla is definitely trying to come up
with new offerings in terms of
technology as well as products to really
try to get consumers interested in the
company um among all of these uh
competitors in the China market. So
Tesla managed to bring the advanced
driver assistance uh systems that cause
uh FSC for self-driving to the China
market this year hoping to compete with
other rivals that are also very strong
in this uh arena such as Huawei linked
vehicles as well as Xpong some of the
other EV companies and you've got Tesla
also developing a six seat uh Model Y
SUV um you know really trying to capture
the family oriented market in China uh
which is a big segment for the SUV
purchases. But um in terms of other new
products, uh we still yet to see a more
affordable version um of an EV coming
from Tesla, something that Elon Musk has
been promising but seems to be uh keeps
getting delayed. Um Tesla seems to be
really focused on its robo taxi
operations now in the US but that
doesn't seem to be coming to China
anytime soon. So I think in terms of
coming up with new products for Tesla in
the China market um it does seem to be
fall a bit short.
>> Yeah and to your point this backdrop of
really intense competition that Tesla
has to grapple with on the mainland.
Bloomber Asia transport reporter Linda
Louu for us there and that's one of the
key themes right David that we've been
watching uh as part of this
anti-involution
rally and how some of these EV makers
have been adjusting also watching some
of the consumption themes out of the
stock rally we've been seeing Aiden
mentioned this a short while ago it's
really driven by tech on the Hong Singh
uh on the mainland uh we watching some
of these earnings as Well, including
from the likes of Yam China, Yantai and
the big one to watch I think 10 minutes
from now thereabouts. The China services
PMIs a number to watch is 50.4 that
would still be expansion but represents
a slowing from the prior reading and of
course against the backdrop of the
dollar moves is becoming increasingly
costly to defend the Hong Kong dollar
peg. So a lot to unpack here, David.
Yeah, I think a third time uh in almost
as many days or second at least this
week that the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority has come out and defended the
uh the PEG and uh on the weaker side of
things which is why I guess we're
looking at highore of course which is uh
somewhat related to that in about two
hours from now and whether or not that
sort of adjusts slower given the uh
liquidity issues here. I'm not talking
about the weather by the way, although
that is also a liquidity concern here
when you look outside uh your window.
For some final thoughts and maybe really
on what this means for rate
differentials, you know, the big story
this week globally has been, you know,
the Fed, you know, you know, it's a
quiet news week when we're talking about
the Fed these days. Um 100% probability
is now priced in for the next meeting.
Aiden Yao is here with us. Final thought
here, senior investment strategist for
Asia Amundi Investment Research
Institute. 100% probability. I mean
there's nothing is 100% certain in life,
right? What what do I do with this
number?
>> I I think it makes sense to price in
higher probability for September cut
after Friday's um nonfailed payroll
data. However, uh once again, I don't
think it's as a done deal as currently
being discounted by the market. And um I
think for two reasons. One is that uh we
have to understand that the central
banks uh like the Fed it's not uh its
job to uh achieve a high absolute growth
rate. It's its job to achieve a high
growth rate relative to the capacity of
the economy. And this is a particularly
important discussion right now because
the Trump economics, Trump policies are
actually impacting both the supply side
and the demand side of the economy. In
so far as the labor market is concerned,
tariffs are hurting demand for jobs. But
at the same time, deportation,
immigration policies are hurting supply
side of the equation as well. So if you
have the demand declines matched by the
decline in supply, the overall balance
of the labor market may not actually
change. So the um the tightness of the
labor market may not actually change and
this could be why uh despite the you
know lowest three months average of job
creation 35,000 from May to July which
is the lowest since the pandemic despite
that you actually have unemployment rate
barely budging it's only taking up from
4.1 to 4.2% and wage growth actually
remains very robust at 39%.
So even though the job creation from the
payroll data was weak but the data is
not just showing me significant slack in
the labor market that requires the Fed
to provide a rescue or or policy action.
So that's the reason number one. Number
two, if you look at the other mandate of
the Federal Reserve, which is inflation,
uh inflation is moving higher
sequentially whether you look at the
June CPI number or the BCE number and
it's across the board. Core prices train
mean median uh ex food and energy core
food prices is showing through some
impacts of tariffs and the core services
is moving higher as well. So if the
markets are correct that we're going to
see further tariff pass through uh
raising inflation in the next couple of
months it could well be oneoff but what
I'm saying is that uh Fed is going to
get two more inflation print uh by
September meeting. I don't think they're
going to have enough information to
assess credibly and confidently that
this is a one-off shock or more
persistent shock. So I think uh it makes
sense to price a higher chance of a
September card, but this to me is not a
done deal.
>> So beyond September, what are you paying
attention to? I mean to your point,
we're not seeing, you know, there are
cracks in the jobs market, but perhaps
not the kind of concern that warrants
the market move that we saw on Friday.
We also have you know this data points
and then Fed independence being sort of
scrutinized. Is the assumption going
forward just going to be more
doubbishness markets getting ahead of
themselves?
>> So I think there are two things that
need to happen for the Fed to be
confident about the easing policy. One
is that inflation uh does appear to be
so tariff impact on inflation does
appear to be oneoff. If we get upcoming
uh inflation numbers so in sequential
declines of inflation then I think that
will give a lot confidence to the Fed to
uh start thinking about the easing
policy in September. Second one is
exactly what I mentioned right slowing
job creation is not going to cut it.
What the Fed needs to see is the slack
starting to emerge in the labor market
and that means that unemployment rate
need to rise and the uh wage growth need
to slow. If you get a combination of
those two things then that means both
mandate of the Federal Reserve are
moving in the same direction. I think
that will give the Fed the confidence to
ease the policy. And obviously we have
to think about the the political
pressure as well with Trump um you know
reportly um sort of in in in days of
nominating the uh the the governor into
the federal committee.
>> Yeah, there we go. Optics is is is quite
important too these days. Aiden, thank
you so much. Aiden Yao there, senior
investment strategist for Asia at Amundi
Investment Institute. It's about 10
minutes into the cash market session.
Greater China up uh 51% on the Hingen
Index. Look at Southeast Asia as we go
into of course the thick of the session
here. Uh inflation just came out out of
the Philippines 40 minutes back the
first time of sub 1% headline inflation
in 6 years. Markets are running high.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Quick look at China markets. We're
seeing in the rest of the region the
sort of bounce tracking Wall Street and
that followth through I think quite
pronounced on Hong Kong and Chinese
stocks. Of course, we are in the thick
of China's earnings season with Yam
China set to report on Tuesday. So for
an update on that and what else to watch
out for, let's bring in our senior Asia
equities reporter Abishek Vishnoy for
us. So Abby, what are you watching out
for? I mean in the absence of you know
stimulus from the pilot bureau readout
>> in the absence of the continuation of a
US China trade truth investors are
latching on to whatever they see from
earnings.
>> That's right. and and the earning season
has been bit supportive like I mean the
the themes that you're seeing on the on
the price action side that's largely how
you know earning season has panned out I
mean if you look at uh battery makers
like cattle numbers have been good but
if you look at consumption you know
oriented companies folk or you know some
banks numbers have not been that great
but in totality I would say it's uh it
looks like a glass half full if you look
at how investors have been u you know
behaving um HSI high is I think just
like 6% away from taking out a 2021 or
2022 peak which can signal a further
breakout. So that's good and um I think
uh the the quarterly GDP was 5.3%
growth. Um that was good but industrial
profits had fallen. So there are certain
themes which are doing good. Biotech
actually by the way did really well too.
there are a bunch of companies which
actually either came out with positive
alerts um or you know um pre-earning
announcements or reported better than
expected numbers. So you know the themes
which are leading the market in terms of
price action like investors you know
building the price they are actually
delivering but yeah consumption real
estate those earnings are still weak. So
but overall it's a glass half full kind
of situation.
>> What about for mainland stocks? I mean,
we seem to be seeing this early innings
of quite a solid rally. Um, investors,
you know, there's cash on the sidelines.
Is this, you know, potential unlocking
of more to come that you're expecting?
>> There is still time for that. I mean, if
you just plot HSI on one side and, you
know, CSI on the other side, you'll see
how Hen index has done so much better
and how CSI is sort of still stuck in a
range. um you know we were talking about
2021 highs when it came to hing uh for
CSI I think we'll be talking about some
multimonth high that needs to be taken
out so you know that's the difference in
picture um even you know in terms of
flows and liquidity you know HK um you
know oriented ETFs in mainland are
seeing record amount of money coming in
even main lenders are way more excited
about owning H shares you're seeing you
know the exchange sort of diluting the
rules a bit for more um you listings in
Hong Kong. So all in all, I mean from
liquidity as well as uh you know from
what we are seeing in terms of uh
earnings estimates as well, Hong Kong
looks much better. Mainline um still has
uh you know a long mile to walk. Um if
you see the the the fundamental picture
on the earnings side I think CICC came
out with a nice analysis that year on
year you know earnings have uh sort of
in first half or first quarter have
dropped uh you know by several
percentage points and we reported on
that but if you look at HSI just take
out like the last couple of weeks I
think HSI was leading the earning
upgrades in Asia right so you that these
are very contrasting
Abby, thank you so much. Thank you so
much. Abishek Vishnoy there, our senior
Asia equities reporter on really what's
going on in the Chinese markets right
now. You know, like the the the
distinction between what's happening in
the onshore and offshore markets. In
fact, just I'll use that as a segue
because in the last 90 minutes or so,
we've had two sets of PMI numbers coming
through. One out of Hong Kong, still in
contraction, but the highest since
January. That's number one. Number two,
you're seeing the market reaction of a
stronger Chinese currency on the back of
an extremely strong S&P global services
PMI number for the mainland. 52.6 blows
away every single estimate out there. Uh
that's coming in at the highest level in
over a year or so. So these are
sequential numbers of course to keep in
mind just in terms of the data point and
what it means as far as the improvement
from the previous month, let alone of
course the absolute value above 50. So
this is a very good set of numbers
coming through and might this actually
do more and give more reason as Abby was
just pointing out there in terms of the
data that's starting to form uh a more
positive narrative. Um, a very quick
glance at technicals right now. Given
the rally we've been talking about here,
Msei China weekly charts, Fibonacci
retracement from the peak in 2021 all
the way back down. Green line is what
you want to focus on. And we are bumping
our heads on the next key juncture here.
That next retracement level is we've
been testing that for about a week and a
half now. And we'll see whether or not
we do manage to break above that yellow
line. And we'll see, Averil whether or
not we do get something that powers this
index above that key level.
Yeah, I mean also to Aby's point when it
comes to earnings delivery hasn't been
uniform, right? So the ones that have
been leading the market surge, they have
been delivering, but there are some of
these outliers. Uh speaking of which,
the CEO of Hong Kong based Power
Generator CLP says the company is
sticking to discipline investment
standards to drive long-term shareholder
value. TK Chong spoke to us exclusively
after first half net income fell 5 and a
half% from a year ago on challenges in
its Australian and mainland Chinese
businesses.
>> This half year I think uh CP has
demonstrated our resilience despite the
uh volatile uh uh energy demand and also
the heightened uh geopolitical
environment. uh uh this is basically
anchored uh by our uh core business in
Hong Kong uh but moderated by the uh uh
you know challenges uh in the mainland
uh business and also the Australian
business. Now in the mainland uh we
experience less wind resources and also
um uh more kind of network restrictions
uh uh and also t pressure. Now in
Australia because of the uh more intense
competition in the retail business uh
despite the fact that actually our
generation business in Australia uh is
performing goods uh our India business
is uh you know continue to be um stable
uh but there is a oneoff um impairment
because of the uh transmission uh asset
in India now but our fundamental
actually uh are strong uh we have uh
very good operational performance high
reliability in Hong Kong. Uh we have
also uh you know completed 300 megawatt
renewable energy projects in China. Uh
we have uh also a strong pipeline uh in
our markets. Uh we have maintained a
agrade uh credit rating from S&P and we
will continue to uh uh uphold our
disciplined investment uh criteria in
order to generate long-term value to our
shareholders.
It's interesting, TK, you say that this
time around in the most recent numbers,
Hong Kong that business actually
anchored the upside, right? Does that
mean the slowing demand picture that we
saw earlier in the year is over? Are you
seeing more input when it comes to
demand from tourism as well as a pickup
in the local economy?
>> Yeah, in Hong Kong in the first half, we
have about 1.7% decline in our demand.
uh and actually bas basically it's
because of uh a high base last year. Uh
last year is a li year and also uh
exceptionally hot. Uh so this year we
see uh the economy uh is uh increasing
is improving and uh uh in overall
speaking over the current five-year
development plan we see uh demand uh to
be about 1% increase per year. So uh um
and also this year we see uh very strong
uh uh demand increase in data center
business as well as EV charging for data
center uh there was uh 6.7% increase uh
in the consumption and right now data
center consumption already amounts to
more than 6% of our total consumption.
Uh so but for the rest of the year of
course it will depends on the economy.
What's your projection when it comes to
coal prices going forward because prices
have fallen to the lowest in many years?
>> Yes, for uh fuel prices uh this year
basically softened quite a bit and uh we
can see that the fuel cost charge in
Hong Kong has dropped from 46.3 cents to
uh 43 cents. So already a 2.3%
reduction. So because we have a monthly
fuel uh cost adjustment mechanism so any
changes in the fuel cost will be uh
timely reflected in our tariff. Uh but
uh I think given the current uh very
water volatile environment actually it's
very quite difficult to uh predict the
uh the ongoing uh price uh uh trends.
>> CLP holding CEO TK Chang speaking with
our colleague Heidi Stra Watts. Plenty
more ahead. This is Bloombog.
[Music]
Welcome back. About 25 minutes into the
session here and at least there
something that is on the on the brighter
side of things. Well, for one, I picked
a very light colored suit today just
because of how depressing and dark the
weather is out there. I'm not sure if
you guys noticed my version of trying to
help out sentiment today, but certainly
not needed. Uh, as you can see, equity
markets are on the front foot. Global
equities put together the best one-day
gain in 7 weeks on Monday. We're
extending that, plus some data to note.
They're the highest services PMI out of
China since May last year.
[Music]
Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the Hong Singh. Half hour into
the session, we are seeing it erasing
the earlier gain. So, not quite tracking
what we're seeing in Asia stocks or what
was uh witnessed on Wall Street, you
know, that bounce uh that we saw and I
think perhaps also not helping is this
bad weather that you're seeing over in
Hong Kong. David, I mean, record
rainstorm warnings uh in the city.
>> Yeah, it's the fourth black rain alert
in a week. I think we have about an hour
at least uh while this warning remains.
Uh, it's a good and bad thing. I think
for one, and people know about my rants
about this, and it's coming now. So,
number one, it's a bad thing because
it's going to keep more people in the
gym, and that means more gym selfies
that we don't need on, you know, taking
up unnecessary space on global cloud.
That's number one. So, if you're at the
gym, just do your sets. There's no need
for a gym selfie. We don't need to see
that. Well, yeah. So, that's going to
keep people in the gym. The good part
though is we'll probably see less
semi-popular influencers without let's
say you know 5,000 followers posting
here's a day in the life of my life like
okay uh no one really needs to see that
too um I don't need to see it at least
anyway that's my rant for the day but
that those two things offset right
because there's less people out the
streets there more people in the gym
um you're working from home you have
more time equity markets a bit as you
can see extending the best day for
global equity markets in 6 weeks on MEI
all country index. S&P futures as you
can see are catching a bid. Uh we had a
very strong showing in European cash
markets yesterday. U couple of other
markets that we've been tracking of
course the big tech heavy Taiwan and
Korea are also catching a decently
strong uh tailwind today. Uh we're
looking at in terms of data some things
to tell you about. So the PMI numbers
which came out S&P global China services
PMI coming in way stronger than
expectations and as you can see dollar
China is coming up on your screens
coming off lows of the day but as you
can see that dip and reaction in terms
of the do in terms of the remmbb
strength and reaction to those numbers
quite visible uh on your screens. Do we
have that
on your screens? And what is that
ticker? I just noticed that. Sorry I
need to get my eyes checked. doesn't
look like
a market that I know. But anyway, it's
up. Sometimes that's all that matters.
Um, as far as global equities go, of
course. Okay. Dollar China. There we go.
Uh, very strong number coming out. S&P
Global. Number two is Philippine peso
very weak and perhaps a good thing still
in terms of the ability for the Bank of
Central to continue to lower interest
rates. A sub 1% headline inflation
number coming through this time in the
last hour. More commentary coming
through here out of the bank of central
risks from geopolitical tensions require
closer monitoring. The reason why we're
at 5731
uh on dollar peso we're coming off I
think the best or the biggest single day
drop on this specific exchange rate on
Monday going back to 2022. So it was
quite a substantial drop there in this
specific one. Apart from that, April,
we're talking chairs and this time of
course it's India, the US and Russia.
What's going on there?
Yeah, I mean to your point in banko
central looking for reasons to ease,
right? And this inflation backdrop I
think just feeds into the case for that.
But we also have the RBI decision
tomorrow. It's already been easing
earlier in the year. But given these
higher rates of tariffs that India is
getting hit with from the US, I mean
what is that going to mean for the
growth trajectory? And of course, amid
all this discussion about central bank
action, it's really about these bets on
what the Fed is going to do next month.
>> Yeah. And I think right now it's about a
98% probability that's attached to a
rate cut next month. And I think the
interesting point that our last guest,
our previous guest, Aiden Yao, uh,
brought up was it it does make sense
that the probability of a cut goes up.
It doesn't make sense that it's a done
deal because we have a few more data
points and he thinks uh one or two more
inflation prints, one more jobs report
will not be enough in his opinion uh to
cement a trend as far as the Fed goes.
Now whether or not it it's enough
currently already uh for an insurance
cut, that's another thing altogether.
But yeah, I mean um it's going to be an
interesting topic. Particularly, I think
this time yesterday, Chris Weston joined
us, right? And he said after the next
jobs report, don't be surprised if a 50
basis point cut debate begins. It's 76
right now that's currently priced
between now and the January 2026
meeting. So all things equal, that's
three in the next four meetings that
markets see a rate cut coming out of the
Federal Reserve. It goes into the global
markets rally. And as we talked about
this trade war, no trade war, slowdown,
what have you, global markets have
continued this rally. In fact, I think
on MEI country already going into the
first eight months of this year, we're
already in fact above our annual
average as far as the annual gains are
concerned. So, it's been a decent year
here, April.
>> Yeah. uh and you know as we've been
discussing really about the Fed's
trajectory let's bring in Rajna Meta
regional fixed income co-head at May
Bankang asset management for a
discussion on this so Rajna
as David was just highlighting we could
see this debate about September being
about 50 not just 25 basis points what
makes most sense for you
>> okay for us I think for me personally I
think it's 25 basis point rate cut
actually beginning of the year only we
talking about 25 basis point in
September we are talking about two to
three rate cuts for this whole this year
I think given that so far we have not
seen the tariff inflation coming into
the data correct even for this month
coming inflation data which is in one to
two weeks I'm not even sure whether that
it the the inflation numbers will show
the tariff impact maybe the tariff
impact will start coming only after next
because there was so much of front loing
of exports so to me I feel that I know a
lot of people are talking about a
stronger inflation number this coming
for July I think it may not be as strong
as expected and maybe that may give a
green light for because there's a big
debate between employment and inflation.
Correct. So yes, we have seen a slowdown
in the employment numbers but the
inflation a lot of people are talking
about the next two to three months is
much going to be higher given the tariff
frontloading of exports and no. So to me
I feel that maybe the tariff impact of
inflation will come sometime starting
from like August numbers for CPI. So
this number may be still weak. So I do
expect actually maybe because this is
the first time because I used to look at
markets very differently but I need to
change my thinking maybe what happened
30 years back is not going to impact now
in terms of tariff in terms of
inflationary pressure because lot of
restocking happen on inventories. So I
do believe that there's a 99% chance
that fed should cut 25 basis point rate
in September.
uh to your point about the jobs market
is how much weight have you been putting
on the recent data? We know how non-farm
payrolls are notoriously volatile.
>> Yes, absolutely. For so for me I think
the July numbers is more important than
the revisions. So if you look at the
July numbers were really really weak and
if you go dig down deeper lot of the
July numbers the payroll the private
payrolls were coming from actually
education correct private education. So
actually if you look at it the job
market is really slowing and given the
especially the service sector and for me
personally that you will start seeing
more weaker data going forward because
if you look at if you dig down the
numbers actually a lot of the private
bureau's hiring were coming mostly from
private education. So to me I think that
data is more important than the revision
and with stricter immigration controls.
Correct. So far the you have seen the
unemployment benefits not going higher
because the companies are not reporting.
Maybe they will start reporting in next
2 to 3 months. So to me I feel that
definitely the the labor market is going
to slow okay for the next two to three.
Now the inflation is a question because
there's there's a big debate between
inflation because uh Fed has got a dual
mandate. So to me that is the most
important thing but I do believe that at
some point maybe the inflation is
transitory for at least for the short
term. So that is what I think let
>> Yes. Yeah. Because the growth slowdown
is happening because definitely growth
slowdown is happening. Even Asian growth
that was very good in first half but
second half is definitely going to slow
given the tariff impact. We have not
seen the tariff impact on Asian
economies yet. So I do believe there'll
be a growth slowdown even in Asia
correct despite what is happening
because so far the impact is going to
start biggest like before it was 10% now
it's almost going to be 15 to 20%. So
the average tariff rate by the US
government will be almost around
approximately 19%. So that because there
was so much of front loading to avoid
the tariff. So I do believe that you'll
see this growth
>> and you alluding to some of this when it
comes to Asian economies maybe some of
the impact we're not witnessing it just
yet. We just got the Philippines data. I
mean inflation that looks pretty tepid.
>> Yes. Yes. uh banko central may be
looking for a reason to ease but do you
think
for Asia central banks we just haven't
seen the worst of it is is that the same
case
>> yes I I do believe that Asian central
banks will cut rates more because the
fiscal room is not there in a lot of
Asian countries so I believe that given
the tariff impact and slowdown in the
growth and the currencies have been
strong I remember last time Asian
central bank used to worry a lot about
currency weakness but I do believe that
going forward they expect the currency
to remain stable or at least stronger
side given that we have seen some dollar
weakness given the policy in the US
correct it's like people are moving away
they're hedging especially a lot of
pension funds insurance company have
started hedging the dollar investment
I'm not saying the dollar investment
they are going to sell but at least they
have started hedging so I feel they have
this cushion where they cut rates
generally the currency weakens correct
but this time the current there's a dual
pressure on currency because the hedging
needs by a lot of pension funds
insurance companies. So I think central
bank will go ahead and cut rates in
Asia. So I do believe across most of the
eastern I expect cuts 25 to 50 basis
point going forward.
>> Okay.
>> And Rajna is the overall strategy then
at least two things uh steeper curves
from here curves are have already
steepened just to note and is is the
case finally strong enough right now to
go higher to go up in duration?
Yes, in fact we've been talking about
this duration for a long time. So the
first half we are taking duration in the
local markets especially Singapore and
Malaysia uh countries like that because
actually I thought the curve was very
steep and the second half I do believe
especially August September uh this
month I believe there's good to take
duration through US treasuries especally
on the credit space like 10 and 30-year
bonds like we've seen the 30-year US
treasury holding about 5.1% so I feel
the new range would be 4.6 6 to 4.95 for
the 30 year and for the 10 year maybe
4.1 to 4.4 4.5. So I remember that I was
talking about the Singapore 30-year
bonds has moved from 3% to 2.2. So I
feel that it has done most of his rally.
Now it'll be in the range of 2 to 2.2
two but yes longterm I still believe the
30 years Singapore government bond may
drop below two but for the short term I
believe it's good to move towards US
duration given that we also had uh uh
treasury refunding and they said they're
going to do more buyback in long end so
I definitely think that is good time to
buy uh take because I do believe the
steepening is happening but it's bull
steepening so do prefer 10 and 30 year
part of the US government at least for
the next one month
>> okay yeah that that that's important to
about the the bold steepening
um nuance.
A quick question though on on credit. So
global high yield has done better than
most parts of this bond mark fixed
income market this year. Do you think
that continues given where spreads are
and given the macro outlook you've just
outlined for us there of likely a weaker
global economy moving forward?
>> Yeah, absolutely. In fact, global health
has done very well. So we would prefer
IG bond investment grade bonds and also
we like GCC in the Middle East like Gulf
Corporation Council. I think the spreads
there for IG bonds are more attractive
compared to Asia. So I do believe that
Asian IG bonds will be moved in a range
like 90 80 to 100 basis point but high
yield bonds in Asia I think still offers
in terms of absolute yield I think it
still gives you 7 to 8% yield which is
okay correct and I think Asian companies
within the high space are still very
very strong enough to withstand the
slowdown in the growth but I don't trade
US high but I feel that yes I do expect
spreads to widen generally for the high
global high but I think for Asian high
they will remain remain in a range bound
but definitely I think we are tilting
more towards investment grade bonds.
>> What about China government bonds? Uh I
think two year we're seeing something
like 1.4 1.5 is that considered an
attractive entry point for you? uh I
don't know because China government bond
as of now like last uh 3 four months I
think it was very very attractive
especially buying 10 and 30 years CGB
not CGB but corporate because there were
lot of issuance out of CH and actually
all these bonds did very very well but
now I believe that I think I expect
curve to steepen in China so especially
the 10-year bonds I expected to move
another 10 to 20 basis point and even a
30-year bond so I do believe more I
prefer US duration than local market
because local markets have moved a lot
in terms of 10 and 30 failed. So I
prefer to take duration risk through US
credits rather than local credits as of
now. But if they move 20 30 basis point
then I would definitely like to pick up
some of these bonds. Yes
>> Rajna great to chat great to have you in
the studio as well. Thanks so much Rajna
Ma co-head regional fix income at May
Bankang Asset Management. Still ahead
President Trump ramps up his tariff
threats against India adding pressure on
New Delhi to reconsider its Russian
energy purchases. We'll have more
details. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. Let's get you guys an
update on the tariff and trade
conversations. You might have waken up
to this in the Asia Pacific. President
Trump says the US will be raising and
really upping the rhetoric on India
tariffs on Indian exports over the
country's purchases of Russian oil.
Meanwhile, on the Swiss side of the
conversation, the Swiss government says
it is determined to win over the US on
trades, maybe a better deal. It's after
President Trump slapped it, of course,
with 39%
tariffs. Rights on both these specific
fronts, let's bring in our team here.
Our Bloomberg government reporter Sudi
Ranjansen is with us to talk us through
India and our senior editor Bill Ferry
is here to talk us through the latest as
far as the Swiss go. Sudi, let me start
with you. This is and we've seen already
quite a reaction coming out of India uh
right now. How has what well
contextualize for us the comments coming
through out of Delhi in response to
Donald Trump's threats of penalties
here?
Well, it's we've what we've seen is a
very very sharp rebuttal that has come
from India to the extent that India has
gone ahead and said that you know it's
being targeted in an unjustified manner
uh and it has also pointed out uh and
you know kept in the open uh as part of
a statement the kind of trade that
European Union and the United States
itself does with Russia. It has again
gone ahead and reiterated its old
position that you know it its energy
purchases are directed by market forces
and that the interests of uh you know
Indian consumers are primary uh
therefore you know uh one can say that
from the past from statements that we
have seen in the past which were largely
consiliatory which were not so sharp
there is a break and India is kind of
trying uh you know trying to say that
it's had enough uh of uh you know being
threatened or being uh threatened with
tariffs and penalties and that it'll not
kind of bend or kind of you know budge
on this issue
>> okay and what does this then mean for
the so this is for you what does this
then mean for the broader relationship
between the two is this actually a
proper threat now
>> well I mean the broader relationship is
quite deep and you know if one is
history is any indicator over the last
two decades the relationship has only
gone up uh and and it's it's gone
through troubles it gone through it's
gone through you know ups and downs but
on the on the you know overall the
trajectory has been an upward trajectory
so if that is an indication then perhaps
this is only a blip on the screen but a
lot will depend on how and what the
United States and what President Trump
does mind you uh India holds the United
States as a very key partner uh if and
not only in in you know in in the
geopolitical sense but also in the
economic sense it is looking out uh to
the United States for investments trying
to get in uh trying to get American
companies US companies into India to
start a manufacturing at the same point
of time making common cause with the
United States against China so it's a
very broad and a vast relationship
whether the United States understands
that and this you know there is an end
to this uh back and forth statements
coming from White House and India that
is not very clear right now.
>> Bill, just to bring you in here, but in
a sort of separate but related
conversation taking place, I mean, the
Swiss have said they're prepared to win
over the US with a better deal. What
does a better deal look like though?
What can they offer?
>> Well, anything anything lower than 39%
would be a better deal for Switzerland
at this point. real shock over that
decision by President Trump and his
administration to impose that level of
tariffs, a better deal. Uh we've seen a
lot of countries uh making promises of
investments. Uh there's not a lot of
details on those those promises, but
something that perhaps would involve
buying US liqufied natural gas for
import. Switzerland doesn't use a lot of
uh gas for their energy needs, but they
do use some. Um they could try to do
something like that. they could make
promises of investments in American
manufacturing uh as well. We've seen
companies countries like Japan doing
that. So, it's just not clear really. I
mean, with uh really about 48 hours to
go, Washington time before these tariffs
uh kick in, it's not clear that there's
time to do something before then. But
perhaps the Swiss could also get some
kind of a reprieve if the White House
thinks that they're making a serious
effort. So, a delay in the
implementation of Swiss tariffs. That's
all very speculative at this point. Uh,
the current reporting is that the 39%
hits uh at just about just after
midnight on Thursday morning and the
Swiss uh are going to do anything they
can to try to stave that off.
>> Right. The context is important though
because the the the trade relationship
on the surface when you look at it,
Bill, is one of a surplus in favor of
the Swiss. But you know they've pointed
out that it's not because of unfair
trade practices. What do we know about
what type of stuff you know Switzerland
exports to the United States that have
contributed to then that surplus?
>> Yeah. Well, gold on on at the top of the
list you put gold. There's a lot of
refining of gold done in Switzerland
that is affecting uh the overall trade
balance. And then you know we're talking
about goods like pharmaceuticals. a lot
of uh there's a lot of Swiss
pharmaceutical companies and of course
on the luxury end you're talking about
watches. So uh but it is it has been a $
38 billion trade surplus that
Switzerland has with the US. That's not
top 10, but it is top 20 uh among
nations in the world. And we know uh
from from even President Trump's first
term. He looks very closely at at those
numbers specifically. And it doesn't
really matter to him typically what what
uh what constitutes that that trade
surplus with the US. Uh he just wants
that number to be smaller.
Okay. Well, this probably a way to do
that. Uh, Bill, thank you so much. Bill
Ferry's our senior editor in Singapore
for us and Sudi Ran Jansen, of course,
uh, on the Indian uh, side of things.
It's also worth pointing out though, of
course, as we have these conversations,
when you look at oil and you look at uh,
nifty futures don't seem to be um,
extremely perturbed by the latest
rhetoric coming through there. Right
about an hour into the cash market
session and equity markets have are just
bobbing between gains and losses here on
the Hang Singh index specifically. Uh
we'll get you an update on the weather
next. CSI 300 I I believe is not session
highest given where we are there as far
as that goes. Asia is better by half of
1% this Tuesday. This is the China show.
[Music]
Welcome back. In some corporate
headlines we're tracking this morning,
Bloomberg has been told that the Adani
group is exploring a tie-up with China's
BYD. That's to make batteries and extend
its push into clean energy. Now, sources
say the conglomerate's chairman, Gonam
Adani, is personally leading the
discussions with the group aiming to
begin mass production of lithium ion
cells. Now, in a stock exchange filing,
the Adani group denies it is in talks
with BY. Now, we're looking at shares of
BU this morning. Coming up on your
screens very shortly at a big pop uh
overnight. We're not really doing a lot
here in Hong Kong. Uh this partnership
with Lyft rolling out robo taxis in
Europe by the end of by next year. The
service would start in Germany and then
in the UK and follows Lyft's acquisition
of the taxi app free now that operates
in nine countries. Now, the companies
say the fleet is expected to grow to
thousands of vehicles across Europe in
the coming years. Right before we go,
we'll just look at banks right now.
We'll talk about other stuff on the
other side of this break. But yeah, this
there's a note coming through out of
Morgan Stanley and they've raised
effectively the price targets here for
some of the names you see on your
screens. That's on anti-involution
funding curves as it pertains to the
financial sector. We're looking at gains
there. And yeah, um I'll talk about this
later. I don't have time for this, but
yes, we'll talk about MTON next.
[Music]
Welcome back to shows. We're going into
the Tokyo lunch break right now. Nikke
topics and BOJ minutes of course very
much in focus right now. Today
specifically, in terms of the other
things have been tracked on the macro
front, we've had a series of inflation
numbers in the Asia Pacific. You had
South Korea coming in that was in line
with expectations and then the
Philippines coming in below
expectations. I guess it goes into this
conundrum of the tariff uncertainty, but
the data is at least in most parts of
the region fairly clear and consistent
with uh I guess a more favorable rate
environment. Favorable meaning on the
lower side of things with the exception
of Japan of course which is dealing with
the same dynamic of uncertainty
but that's holding back perhaps these
bets of higher rates over in Japan. As
you can see, as far as the 10-year yield
goes, it's certainly a a boat that's now
left the now left the job. Okay, Asian
markets are looking like this half of
1%. S&P futures are coming off a little
bit higher today. The dollar is was
slightly on the weaker side of the
cutoff, at least the Bloomberg gauge.
That's really uh an amalgamation of uh
other moves across the Asia FX space.
Most sectors are trading on the way up
and I think more favorably when you look
at risk from a risk appetite perspective
it's cyclicals and sort of hydration
pockets of the equity market that are
leading uh these gains that you see on
your screens right u apart from this
other data that's come through today PMI
numbers out of Hong Kong so up uh I
think the highest here in Hong Kong
going back to January of this year still
in contraction though but that's
encouraging that's number one number two
is the the big surprise actually came in
the form of the S&P global
uh China services PMI which effectively
came in a couple of points ahead of even
the most bullish forecast there. So that
that's really leading to the strength in
the in the Chinese currency in what's
really by the way a a fairly quiet day
as far as the news flow goes. But yeah,
anyway, the the day is young as we say.
Okay, let's focus in now on China. So
President Xi's chief of staff has met
with experts in the seaside city of
Bedah over the past weekend. That's
according to state media reports. Now
that's a sign that the country's top
leaders have begun their annual summer
retreats. Minman Lo, our China
correspondent is here with us to talk
us. So start things off with the for
those that are unfamiliar the
significance of the beta annual
meetings.
>> Yes. So every year around August the top
party leaders will disappear for a
couple of weeks. They would travel to
this seaside town of Betai about 300
kilometers away from Beijing. Ostensibly
it is a time for them to take a break
from the pressures of Beijing. But in
the past this has also been where key
political decisions have been made. You
can think of the two sessions as where
you know formal decisions are made.
Legislation is being passed by the
rubber sand parliament. But beta some
say is where the real decisions are
being made and usually it's shrouded in
secrecy and this is pro possibly the
closest that we would get to a
confirmation from state media saying
that Tai Chi the chief of staff of
presidency is meeting with experts which
is quite routine. They would often
invite experts. This time they come from
the field of tech, social sciences and
basic research. Not a lot of details.
The theme is contributing to a new era.
But that's all we got for now.
>> Okay. And typically what happens?
>> So this is a time when party elders,
retired party leaders would be able to
participate in decision-m where there
would be a lot of jostling for power
among the different factions. There
would be sometimes fierce debates not
just on the policy front but on
political decisions like succession
planning who's going to move up the
ranks of the political party. In the
past if you think about it Maong who
started this in the 1950s he had decided
to launch the great leap forward during
the beta meeting. He decided to shell
Kimman Islands during that fight with
the Kwam party during the the the Bahai
meeting as well. But in recent years it
had taken on less significance than
before.
>> So yeah. Okay. So, I guess that's that's
to the point you just made there. So,
what for this specific year, what are
party leaders expected to have
discussed?
>> Yeah. Well, um it's taken on a less
significance this year. I mean, again,
we don't really get a lot of details
from state media, but you can imagine
that the leaders would discuss what is
most present um and most urgent for for
for the party leaders to talk about and
that would be I guess the economy. This
is coming just ahead of the party planum
the where they would discuss the
five-year plan. And so they would
discuss you know things like how to
expand um domestic consumption some of
the issues related to to geopolitics its
relations with Russia given the military
parade coming up. But in recent years
because presidency has pretty much
consolidated his power. Uh some say that
he has shifted away from this era of
backroom politics to a more formalized
sort of rules-based governance which
some analysts say is going to be
critical for the longevity of the
communist party for the next hundred
years given that this new crop of
younger leaders don't share the sort of
um political background that the
founders did like you know maonging
where they fought alongside each other
for many years and they don't have that
sort of shared background and so the the
more formalized sort of decision-m
process could be more important for the
longer term survival of the party.
>> Min, thank you so much. Minman, hello
there. Uh, our China correspondent here.
Okay, let's uh just very briefly turn to
well in other news this morning. Let's
talk about this. So, Beijing and you
know the the weather's quite significant
of course as far as the uh mind space
today is concerned. And yeah, we
continue to track the fairly strong
rains that we're seeing in Beijing. A
round of torrential rain just a week
really after downpours unleashed
flooding that killed at least 44 people.
Now, the city's weather service raised
its rainstorm warning to red. That's in
Monday with the heaviest rainfall
expected through dawn uh on Tuesday. Uh
in Hong Kong, uh the we're operating
under a black rainstorm warning which up
until a few minutes ago was will be
would have been hoisted up until 11:00
a.m. We're now getting an update there
that the the black rain alert will
remain at least in force until 300 p.m.
today. So that's an extension of what we
understand so far. That's really what
Hong Kong looks like from our windows
here in central Hong Kong. That's a look
at the peak if you can even glean
anything from this sort of live shot
that we're seeing right now.
Effectively, what it means operationally
is that the government has shut schools
uh for days and courts have been
adjourned until at least 3 p.m. But of
course, markets continue to trade here
in the city. Now, Australian federal
police have charged a Chinese national
under foreign interference laws for
allegedly collecting information on a
Buddhist organization targeted by
Beijing. Now the woman is also an
Australian permanent resident and police
say that they expect more arrests. Now U
Australia introduced foreign
interference laws back in 2018 and the
case actually raises the risk of
renewing tensions between Canbor and
Beijing.
Now let's stay in Australia and the plan
there to ban children under 16 from
social media. You might have heard and
read about this and as you would imagine
it sparked intense debates with
Alphabet's YouTube at the very center of
things. Katherine Thorbeck, our
Bloomberg opinion columnist says
protecting children from online harm
won't be as simple as it sounds and she
joins us from our Tokyo studios right
now. Katherine, good morning and just
take us through the thinking here and
why do you say that banning teens from
YouTube won't actually keep them safe?
>> Right. Good morning, David. So, I think
this is really taking a simplistic
solution that sounds very appealing to
parents and caretakers who might be, you
know, exhausted, uh, but it's using it
to try to solve a very complex problem.
And research from the American
Psychological Association actually says
that these hardline age limits are not
effective at protecting young people
from online harms. You know, they are
sort of a band-aid solution and they
don't address the root causes of these
risks. So they might keep some
15year-olds offline, but then they leave
those same teens vulnerable as soon as
they turn 16 to some of these threats.
And I also think, you know, I think
we're being a little bit naive if we say
that uh young people who really grew up
on the internet and are very tech-savvy
won't find ways around these sort of age
limits. And we've already seen that play
out in other jurisdictions that have
implemented these sort of age limits.
And so I don't see how this will
actually end up keeping any teens safe.
Okay, so that's the nuance between 15
and 16 and of course their familiarity
with being able to get around it anyway
if that's that is where we're headed. My
next question is specifically why on
YouTube and how is it how is the
conversation different over YouTube
compared to other social media
platforms.
>> Right? So I think YouTube's especially
interesting and not just because of some
of the drama we saw in Australia about
uh the promised exemption that was then
reversed. I think YouTube is also unique
because some data from the US shows that
YouTube is actually the most watched
television streaming service uh of all.
You know, it's beating out some of these
juggernauts like uh the Walt Disney
Company and Netflix. And it's really
just so closely tied to youth culture
and pop culture, especially in
Australia. And you know, when I think of
YouTube in Australia, I think of Troy
Savon, the the Grammy nominated singer
who really launched his career on there
uh by posting sort of pop cover songs
and vlogs as a teen. So I think it's,
you know, a really important outlet for
young people. And at the same time,
YouTube is an interesting case because
they've also shown that it's possible to
launch products that are specifically
geared towards young people and aimed at
keeping them safe. you know, YouTube
Kids was launched because most, you
know, parents and and and people sort of
recognize that it would be unwise to
sort of just turn a blind eye and assume
that these kids won't be on YouTube and
that there isn't a lot of educational
material and Miss Rachel and Sesame
Street and stuff like that, that kids do
want to access, but there do need to be
safeguards in place. So, YouTube has
sort of shown that it is possible to
sort of clean it up and make it safer
for young people without just banning
them outright.
>> Okay. And in terms of this being, you
know, principle and actionable
uh concrete thing that lawmakers and
parents can then endeavor, you know,
what can they do to actually protect
young people from online harm.
>> So I think one thing that Australia does
get right here is that the onus really
does have to be on these tech companies
to clean up the internet for young
people. You know, the the UN children's
agency says that access to the internet
and access to outlets for freedom of
expression is actually a right of
children. Uh but it really is on on
these lawmakers and especially on these
big tech companies to make sure it's
safe for them to access that. So I think
they really need to keep the pressure on
these tech companies. You know, one way
to start would be to asking them to
asking them to open up uh their
algorithms to outside researchers so we
can really see what the actual harms are
and come up with sort of targeted
solutions. But I think you know
pretending that kids won't access
YouTube is easy but the governing is
harder.
>> Ah yes there we go. And I think that's a
more complicated matter of course to uh
to try and endeavor. Katherine Thorbeck
thanks so much in Tokyo Bloomberg
opinion column. You can check out by the
way her column there uh on uh for our
Bloomberg clients. Okay just going into
the very short break right now. We'll
leave you to look at markets Hang Seng
CSI 300 what's going on in Singapore and
also on the Cosby index and again to I
guess a spectrum of um a market that's
trading sideways to one that's actually
doing well although coming off highs of
the day on the Cosby index 1.2% there
over in Soul
[Music]
Welcome back. The CEO of Japan's biggest
bank, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group,
says it is desirable that the Bank of
Japan raises interest rates as soon as
its next meeting in September given the
higher inflation outlook in the country.
Hi Kamisawa spoke to Bloomberg
exclusively about interest rates in
Japan's recent trade deal with President
Trump.
I don't think everything is completely
clear yet, but the fact that an
agreement has been reached is
significant.
I believe this gives us a clearer
outlook than before.
An increase to a 15% tariff is not a
small number and many sectors and
companies are likely to be affected. On
the other hand, the fact that we can now
see some clarity is important.
When we set our performance targets at
the beginning of the fiscal year, we did
so based on the assumption of an
increase of tariffs to 10% plus a
buffer, the level at which the global
network and supply chain would not be
disrupted.
In that sense, the 15% increase is
slightly higher than our initial
forecast, which was closer to 10%. But
it's still within the range we expected.
Overall, regarding the outlook for the
Japanese economy, I think the underlying
economic recovery will remain intact.
GDP will probably decline by around 0.5
to 0.6%.
But the underlying economic recovery
will continue. As for our current plans
at MUFG, we believe that there is no
need to make any major changes at this
point. There are a few uncertainties, so
we'll wait until the situation becomes
clearer.
JGB yields are rising not only for ultra
long-term bonds but also for 10-year
bonds.
You've explained that you are taking a
cautious approach to position building.
Could you explain that? In addition, how
high do you think 10-year bond yields
will rise in the future?
We do not consider it prudent to
publicly disclose our position at this
stage. But our basic view is that given
the current trend of rising interest
rates in Japan, the key question is at
what level we should purchase bonds. At
the same time, as seen in the results of
the recent upper house election, rising
yields are an alarm bell in the policy
debate over fiscal expansion. I think
the trend will continue for a while. So
I don't think it's a situation where we
should rush to buy right now. While it's
hard to pinpoint an exact level, if we
assume a terminal rate of around 1.5%,
the 10-year yield at that point would be
around 2%. So the range from the latter
half of 1% to around 2% could be a level
where we could consider buying. But as I
mentioned earlier, the current trend is
toward a slight rise in interest rates.
So I think it is important to watch the
situation closely and wait for the right
timing.
The Bank of Japan held its monetary
policy meeting. The decision was to keep
rates unchanged, but with tariff
negotiations settling down, some are
saying that the environment for a rate
hike within the year is in place. What
is your view on the possibility of a
rate hike within the year?
Our
official company view sees March next
year as a possible timing of the rate
hike. But personally, I think September
or October is quite possible. I think
that a rate hike in September or October
could be desirable. The reason is that
inflation is still quite strong.
The number of items subject to price
increases has grown by about five times
compared with last year. And there's
also the issue of imported inflation.
In that sense, I personally think that
this autumn is a reasonable time for an
interest rate hike. But as various
statistical data will be released in the
coming months if the growth rate figures
are not as strong as expected when they
come out, there may be discussions to
take a wait and see approach.
The timing could shift to around March
next year. will see a period of careful
monitoring of economic data. But I think
it's entirely possible
exclusive conversation there with the
CEO of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
there of course with our colleague
Hideki Suzuki there. In fact, just on
that note, they were touching on to you
know how high can a 10-year JGB yield
get. Uh the BOJ minutes just uh released
this morning does suggest that many
board members have just effectively held
the view that the central bank if the
central bank pulls back too quickly from
being buyers of JGBs it might have
unforeseen consequences in terms of
market stability. want to watch today.
Of course, in the back of those minutes,
inflation numbers coming through out of
the Philippines and South Korea perhaps
more newsworthies, the softer prints out
of the Philippines coming in at.9%.
And in the Hong Kong markets, well, two
things are coming together here. It's
obviously this Fed conversation around
great cuts being on the horizon. Uh
we're testing the as you can see again
the weaker end of the trading band. Uh
the HKMA has had to act several times
already very recently. We'll get highore
in the next hour coming through as well.
And we have PMI numbers which came out
about two hours back which Goldman Sachs
has a a very interesting note about and
we'll tell you about that note in a
couple of minutes. Plenty more ahead.
This is the China show.
[Music]
Welcome back. So we we talked about
banks early on with that Morgan Stanley
upgrade and the price targets. That's an
anti-involution
reasoning behind that call separately
but also in financials here is as you
can see we're looking at gains across
some of the brokerages uh on the back of
this report that's come through uh about
China looking to strengthen some
oversightes over some uh stock gains
overseas for the specifics of the report
know we know so far we've talked about
this as well previously law is with us
our China credit reporter joining us now
yeah what's what what is this about what
do we know specifically about this
Tristo.
>> Yeah. So it's actually the first time um
Chinese official media to report it on
this rule uh which has been follow on
this for quite some time. Um China has
strengthened its oversight of citizens
overseas stock trading games. Um we
firstly reported this role change um
last October. Um and then we have
another followup earlier this year um
mentioning like China extended its
scrutiny on those overseas investment
gain to actually less wealthy people
nowadays compared with um last October
we reported that they actually targeting
those wealthy people. So um overall I
think it's a you know very clear signals
that China has strengthened its effort
on u collecting more taxes on this kind
of investment gains.
Trista, thank you so much. Yeah, for
clarifying that for us. We've reported
on this as she was just pointing out
there. Of course, first time we're
hearing it, of course, from um uh state
media. Okay. Uh other parts of the
market we're tracking. So that's that
covers the the brokerages today as far
as the car cash markets go. We're
looking at banks as well coming up in
your screen shortly. So your your big
four from ICBC all the way down to about
a bank. That is not of course in order
of size or scale. Uh that's the big four
on your screens. Uh Morgan Stanley's out
with a note here uh raising their price
target on the banking stocks on the back
of these anti-involution
uh funding saying that the new funding
controls to the sectors that are over
capacity will support their prices.
That's a note there out of the analyst
team at at Morgan Stanley. Right. Flip
the page and let's have a look at city's
note. This is on matean and the profit
there under pressure in 4Q
amid uh competition. Let me just read
that out a little bit further. While the
food delivery competition may reach its
peak in the third quarter which we are
um currently in following well for one
the regulatory warning coming out
official to number two. Of course the
the the the players themselves have come
out and said they are going to do their
part. City remains cautious on the the
instant retail segment in China. There
is a limited chance for Muan to scale
back its overseas expansion. The price
target is cut there to 188 from
192.
U right u as it pertains to other things
that we're tracking here. Uh we did get
the PMI numbers coming out of Hong Kong
along with other PMIs here and Goldman
Sachs came out with a little bit of
context here as far as the S&P Global
Hong Kong gauge is concerned. So an
improvement from from June 47.8 we've
gone up to about 49.2 which effectively
takes you back I think to the highest
level since the start of this year
January or Feb. uh it might indicate
underneath the hood that might not tell
you the whole story inflationary
pressure on the downstream sectors has
increased somewhat in July by the way
not to mention and I'll use this as a
jumping off point to remind you of the
weather where the last several weeks
I've seen really extreme weather
scenarios here in the city which has
really well it hasn't shut down the
actual market itself it's certainly kept
people off the streets which is I think
it's something to consider when you look
at what retail sales will look like for
July, what the PMIs will look like then
for for August. And again, public
service reminder that in the last few
minutes or so, we've gotten an extension
from weather officials of the black rain
alert here um will extend to at least or
will remain in force until uh 300 p.m.
today. So, if you don't have to make it
into work, you can work from home, do
so. Keep safe, keep dry, of course, is
number one priority there. Uh we're
looking at Hong Kong markets a tenth of
1% to the downside here in the first 90
minutes of trade 24/7 right now is we
where we are here on the hanging index.
It's worth pointing out just two things
before I go. The highore is coming out
in the next hour. We did dip back below
1% uh this week. Does that continue
given the intervention and again the
liquidity in abundance not just in the
weather but also in markets right now.
We will see you all tomorrow. Thank you
for joining us today.